Improve tutorials (#21)
convince-project/AS2FM: docs/source/tutorials.rst

Tutorials
=========

> 

Reviewer: We could add something like Prerequisite: installation, with a link. Not sure how this works in rst, though.

Author: I can reference to it, yes!

.. _scxml_conversion:

How to convert from (SC)XML to plain JANI?
--------------------------------------------

This tutorial explains how to convert an autonomous system specified using a combination of BT-XML and SCXML files into a JANI model.
For this tutorial, we assume the system specification is already available. Further explanations on how to specify the system can be found in the `SCXML how-to <scxml_howto>`.

Reference model
```````````````

For this tutorial, we use the model defined here: `ros_example_w_bt <https://github.com/convince-project/as2fm/tree/main/jani_generator/test/_test_data/ros_example_w_bt>`_.
The model consists of a main.xml file, referencing to the BT files running in the system and the SCXML files modeling the BT plugins, as well as the environment and the ROS nodes.

This example models a simple system with a battery that is continuously drained and, once it reaches a certain level, an alarm is triggered.
A behavior tree continuously monitor the alarm topic and, once it is triggered, recharges the battery to its full level before starting the draining process again.

> The following image gives an overview of the complete system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following image gives an overview of and examplary system to be modelchecked.
```

.. image:: graphics/scxml_tutorial_ros_example_w_bt.drawio.svg
    :width: 800
    :alt: An image of the complete exemplary system.

In this example, the system is composed by the following components modeled in SCXML:

> * a **battery_drainer**, that at each time step drains the battery by 1%, and each time the charge trigger is received, it recharges the battery to 100%.
> * a **battery_manager**, that at each time the battery level is received checks if it is below 30% and, if so, triggers the alarm.
> 
> The **behavior tree** continuously checks the alarm topic and, once it is triggered, sends a charge trigger to the battery_drainer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a **Battery Drainer**, that at each time step drains the battery by 1%, and each time the charge trigger is received, it recharges the battery to 100%.
* a **Battery Manager**, that at each time the battery level is received checks if it is below 30% and, if so, triggers the alarm.

The **Behavior Tree** continuously checks the alarm topic and, once it is triggered, sends a charge trigger to the battery_drainer.
```

> The JANI property given in `battery_depleted.jani <https://github.com/convince-project/as2fm/tree/main/jani_generator/test/_test_data/ros_example/battery_depleted.jani>`_ defines the property of interest to be model checked. In this case, it calculates the minimal probability that the battery level is below or equal to zero eventually, i.e., all we verify here is that the battery is empty at some point.

Reviewer: Given that we also provide a bt, it would make more sense to use the version where the battery is also charged and verify that it never runs out. I think this would make a bit more sense. Otherwise, people could get hung up on the point that the bt is useless.

Author: Right, but we do not have that property implemented yet. We only have the emtpy, belowe 20% and alarm on.
I can implement one more property for the battery to get charged after a minimum amount of time

> In the `main.xml file <https://github.com/convince-project/as2fm/tree/main/jani_generator/test/_test_data/ros_example/main.xml>`_ introduced earlier, the maximum run time of the system is specified with ``max_time`` and shared across the components. To make sure that the model checked property makes sense, the allowed runtime needs to be high enough to have enough time to deplete the battery, i.e., in this example the maximal time needs to be at least 100s because the battery is depleted by 1% per second.

Reviewer: This is maybe an aspect that goes a little too deep for a first tutorial. I mean we probably need a how-to for properties at some point anyway. Maybe we can mention this there? But just an idea. We can also keep it here for now.

Author: Maybe we can keep it as is, and point to some other reference in the how to for further info?

All of those components are converted into one JANI DTMC model by the ``scxml_to_jani`` tool.

Running the script
`````````````````````

After installing the AS2FM packages as described in the :ref:`installation section <installation>`, a full system model can be converted into a model-checkable JANI file as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd AS2FM/jani_generator/test/_test_data/ros_example_w_bt/
    scxml_to_jani main.xml

The output is a JANI file will be located in the same folder, and it will be called `main.jani`.

.. _jani_conversion:

> How to convert from CONVINCE robotic JANI to plain JANI?

Reviewer: yeah .. maybe we can add a note that this is not really needed right now and completely independent of the ROS stuff
